README.md, before:

# shorai-esp32
This will work for Toshiba Shorai and Seiya

This works great for me, but is at your own risk!

Hit me up on (https://discord.gg/wF8QsGe74s) if there is anything
i can help with

### PCB Schematic
![PCB Schematic](images/schematic.PNG?raw=true "PCB Schematic")

### PCB Layout
![PCB layout](images/pcb.PNG?raw=true "PCB layout")
U5 is a jumper, close the jumper to be powered from the heatpump. Remove jumper when powered from usb.

R1: 220R  
R2: 470R  
R3: 10K  
R7,R8,R9,R10: 1K  
U1,U2: 817A (Optocouplers)  
C1: 100uF  
U5: When connected with a Jumper, the pcb is powered from the AC (can be soldered)  

Files for PCB (and possible to order): https://oshwlab.com/toremick/toshiba-ac-heatpump-mqtt  

### Parts list

* 1 x ESP32-DevKitC v4 (38 pins)
* 2 x EL817A Optocoupler (https://www.ebay.com/itm/Straight-Plug-Optocoupler-EL817-A-B-C-D-F-DIP-4-Compatible-PC817-Isolator/253795050804?hash=item3b175d2534:g:LjcAAOSwXVNbY~z3)
* 4 x 0.25w 1K resistors
* 1 x 0.25w 470R resistor
* 1 x 0.25w 10K resistor
* 1 x 0.25w 220R resistor
* 1 x 100uF (11mmx5mm) Capacitor 
* 1 x S05B-PASK-2 (header for connection cable)
* and 2.54mm header pins and sockets

### Extra part list for creating a extension cable

* JST, PA Female Crimp Connector Housing, 2mm Pitch, 5 Way, 1 Row (https://no.rs-online.com/web/p/wire-housings-plugs/1630360/)
* JST, PA Female Connector Housing, 2mm Pitch, 5 Way, 1 Row (https://no.rs-online.com/web/p/wire-housings-plugs/4766798/)
* JST, PA Female Crimp Connector Housing SPAL-001T-P0.5 (https://no.rs-online.com/web/p/crimp-contacts/1630376/)
* JST, PA, PBV, PHD Female Crimp Terminal Contact 22AWG SPHD-001T-P0.5 (https://no.rs-online.com/web/p/crimp-contacts/6881381/)

This can be skipped if you are solder the capacitor on the solder side laying flat. This way it will fit inside the AC unit

![PCB solder](images/pcb_solder.png?raw=true "PCB Solder")
![PCB cover](images/pcb_cover.png?raw=true "PCB Cover")



### Home assistant Climate config part

```
climate:
  - platform: mqtt
    name: HeatPump
    unique_id: toshibaheatpump
    modes:
      - "off"
      - "auto"
      - "cool"
      - "heat"
      - "dry"
      - "fan_only"
    swing_modes:
      - "on"
      - "off"
    fan_modes:
      - "quiet"
      - "lvl_1"
      - "lvl_2"
      - "lvl_3"
      - "lvl_4"
      - "lvl_5"
      - "auto"
    power_command_topic: "heatpump/state/set"
    power_state_topic: "heatpump/state/state"
    mode_command_topic: "heatpump/mode/set"
    mode_state_topic: "heatpump/mode/state"
    current_temperature_topic: "heatpump/roomtemp"
    temperature_command_topic: "heatpump/setpoint/set"
    temperature_state_topic: "heatpump/setpoint/state"
    fan_mode_command_topic: "heatpump/fanmode/set"
    fan_mode_state_topic: "heatpump/fanmode/state"
    swing_mode_command_topic: "heatpump/swingmode/set"
    swing_mode_state_topic: "heatpump/swingmode/state"
    temp_step: 1
    precision: 1
    
```


### Add following to automations.yaml or where you have your automations
(this will query the heatpump for all values so HA will have current state
for everything)

``` 
- id: gethpvalues_on_startup 
  alias: "HP states on HA start-up" 
  trigger:
    platform: homeassistant
    event: start
  action: 
  - service: mqtt.publish 
    data: 
      topic: heatpump/doinit
      payload: startup-ha
    
```

Commit message:

Added the proper MDI icon to the hassio configuration. Added a description on how to modify the hassio configuration when having multiple devices.

README.md, after:

# shorai-esp32
This will work for Toshiba Shorai and Seiya

This works great for me, but is at your own risk!

Hit me up on (https://discord.gg/wF8QsGe74s) if there is anything
i can help with

### PCB Schematic
![PCB Schematic](images/schematic.PNG?raw=true "PCB Schematic")

### PCB Layout
![PCB layout](images/pcb.PNG?raw=true "PCB layout")
U5 is a jumper, close the jumper to be powered from the heatpump. Remove jumper when powered from usb.

R1: 220R  
R2: 470R  
R3: 10K  
R7,R8,R9,R10: 1K  
U1,U2: 817A (Optocouplers)  
C1: 100uF  
U5: When connected with a Jumper, the pcb is powered from the AC (can be soldered)  

Files for PCB (and possible to order): https://oshwlab.com/toremick/toshiba-ac-heatpump-mqtt  

### Parts list

* 1 x ESP32-DevKitC v4 (38 pins)
* 2 x EL817A Optocoupler (https://www.ebay.com/itm/Straight-Plug-Optocoupler-EL817-A-B-C-D-F-DIP-4-Compatible-PC817-Isolator/253795050804?hash=item3b175d2534:g:LjcAAOSwXVNbY~z3)
* 4 x 0.25w 1K resistors
* 1 x 0.25w 470R resistor
* 1 x 0.25w 10K resistor
* 1 x 0.25w 220R resistor
* 1 x 100uF (11mmx5mm) Capacitor 
* 1 x S05B-PASK-2 (header for connection cable)
* and 2.54mm header pins and sockets

### Extra part list for creating a extension cable

* JST, PA Female Crimp Connector Housing, 2mm Pitch, 5 Way, 1 Row (https://no.rs-online.com/web/p/wire-housings-plugs/1630360/)
* JST, PA Female Connector Housing, 2mm Pitch, 5 Way, 1 Row (https://no.rs-online.com/web/p/wire-housings-plugs/4766798/)
* JST, PA Female Crimp Connector Housing SPAL-001T-P0.5 (https://no.rs-online.com/web/p/crimp-contacts/1630376/)
* JST, PA, PBV, PHD Female Crimp Terminal Contact 22AWG SPHD-001T-P0.5 (https://no.rs-online.com/web/p/crimp-contacts/6881381/)

This can be skipped if you are solder the capacitor on the solder side laying flat. This way it will fit inside the AC unit

![PCB solder](images/pcb_solder.png?raw=true "PCB Solder")
![PCB cover](images/pcb_cover.png?raw=true "PCB Cover")



### Home assistant Climate config part

**Important note:**
If you have more than one device, please remember to change the *name*, *unique_id* and all the mqtt strings to have unique names. For each device replace the heatpump name with the unique 'maintopic' you have configured in the config.py of your ESP32 device. 

```
climate:
  - platform: mqtt
    name: HeatPump
    icon: mdi:air-conditioner
    unique_id: toshibaheatpump
    modes:
      - "off"
      - "auto"
      - "cool"
      - "heat"
      - "dry"
      - "fan_only"
    swing_modes:
      - "on"
      - "off"
    fan_modes:
      - "quiet"
      - "lvl_1"
      - "lvl_2"
      - "lvl_3"
      - "lvl_4"
      - "lvl_5"
      - "auto"
    power_command_topic: "heatpump/state/set"
    power_state_topic: "heatpump/state/state"
    mode_command_topic: "heatpump/mode/set"
    mode_state_topic: "heatpump/mode/state"
    current_temperature_topic: "heatpump/roomtemp"
    temperature_command_topic: "heatpump/setpoint/set"
    temperature_state_topic: "heatpump/setpoint/state"
    fan_mode_command_topic: "heatpump/fanmode/set"
    fan_mode_state_topic: "heatpump/fanmode/state"
    swing_mode_command_topic: "heatpump/swingmode/set"
    swing_mode_state_topic: "heatpump/swingmode/state"
    temp_step: 1
    precision: 1
    
```


### Add following to automations.yaml or where you have your automations
(this will query the heatpump for all values so HA will have current state
for everything)

``` 
- id: gethpvalues_on_startup 
  alias: "HP states on HA start-up" 
  trigger:
    platform: homeassistant
    event: start
  action: 
  - service: mqtt.publish 
    data: 
      topic: heatpump/doinit
      payload: startup-ha
    
```
